At this point, we're all ready to go.
If we have that YAML file local with our source code,
now we can use the Docker Compose tools,
and that's what I'm going to walk you through here to get this
development environment and all of these services up and
running in just a matter of minutes,
especially if you already have some of the images already cached locally.
So let's jump in and take a look at how we can do that.
So I already have a Docker Console set up here ready to go.
And all we'd have to do as we've seen earlier is run docker‑compose build.
Now I already have some of this cached to kind of speed it up,
but this will go through and build out our different services.
We have six of them again.
And now that these are built, we can do a docker images,
and you can see that, here we go, I have my NGINX node1,
2, 3, and these are some other ones that I had.
But you can see here's the codewithdandockerservices_node1, 2, 3, Redis.
But the reason this built pretty fast is I already
had another version of this going,
and so I was able to leverage some of the layered file system.
All right, now if I run docker ps ‑a,
you can see that I've already tried to run some of these before.
And so a little trick we can do here is we could say docker rm,
and I'd like to go ahead and remove all these.
We're going to start kind of from scratch here.
And when I do a rm, I can do a ‑f to force.
And that way, if anything is kind of locked up at all, we can take care of it.
And now what I'm going to do is say docker,
and we're going to list all the images, ps ‑a and ‑q for quiet,
and this will go through and remove them.
So let's do docker ps ‑a, and let me do that one more time.
There we go.
Nice and clean.
Okay,
so just to kind of show that we're starting from scratch here on our containers.
So now it's pretty easy.
You already know what to do.
In fact, we've done this.
We can do docker‑compose up, and let's go ahead and run this.
And you can see it's now bringing up all my different services here.
Mongo's loading.
Here's some of my Node images that are loading now.
They're creating some routes behind the scenes to handle all that.
Db connection, you'll see, is opened.
If I scroll up a little bit to the Mongo section,
you'll notice that it's actually showing me that a root user was set
called dbadmin and a root role was set as well.
And then we have a webrole and a database name and all that stuff.
And I'm just logging that out right now so we can see if it kind of worked.
And so you could scroll through all the logs if you want.
I'm in this case running in interactive mode.
But, of course,
I could have just done docker‑compose up ‑d and then run
in the daemon mode that you've seen.
And now that this is up and running, we can come on over,
and I'm just going to refresh.
I've already run this.
And there we go.
It looks like the content's been loaded here.
Now I'm not seeing any data, of course, because at this point,
I haven't run the seeder.
But since we have containers, I could go on back again,
and we can kind of x out of here.
Now notice it's going to try to gently shut down our different services,
so we'll go ahead and let it finish.
All right, and let's do a docker‑compose ps,
and you'll notice here that they've all exited.
You can see that over here on the right.
Okay, that's fine.
We know how to do the up.
So let's go ahead and do the up again.
But we'll do ‑d this time.
All right, that'll let me get back to here.
Now you can see the names are actually shown right here.
So I just need to do a docker exec,
and then I can put the name of one of these containers.
So let's go ahead and grab this guy as an example.
And I can execute that node dbSeeder.
I showed this a little bit earlier in the course.
This is a file that's in the actual project that will
get some fake data up into Mongo.
So we can try to run that.
It looks like it worked, so we'll exit out of there.
Again, do docker‑compose ps.
All right, it looks like everything is up and running.
You can see the state right there.
And let's refresh.
All right, there we go.
Now we're getting some data.
This is all from the database and this.
And, actually, now it just cached in Redis,
so this data right here is being cached because it doesn't really change much.
So every time I refresh, it actually is going to be pulling from Redis.
So we could actually do a docker‑compose logs,
and we can get back into the logs.
And you can see some of the Redis connections and things going on here.
So that's an example of how easy it is now to get this custom,
six‑service development environment up and running and allow
us now to have a fully functional website.
I can start editing the code because of the volumes because,
remember, we had a volume that points to my local machine in this case.
And now when I'm done, I can just close up shop for the day if I want.
We'll get out of the log mode here and do,
like we saw earlier, we could do docker‑compose down. And then that,
of course,
will stop the services and, as you saw earlier, also remove the containers.
So there you have it.
There's a walkthrough of setting up a custom development environment with
six services all the way from looking at the custom Docker files, some of
the configuration environment files, to the YAML file to actually running it with our docker‑compose commands.